title: "Frequently asked questions"
layout: doc
contentId: "doc-faq"

---


## Using the service

### How do you know what rights will be visible during a leave request creation?

The administrator can enter in the description of the right an information text that will be visible to the user in the "User> My rights" section. The list of rules is visible to the user, here again a rule is represented by its title, the administrator must explicitly set the title for each rule.

### How to use a time savings account?

The time saving account is a specific right that always contains an initial amount at zero, unlike the other right it can be credited from requests into the time saving account. Apart from this specificity, the time saving account behaves like other rights, it is subject to the rules set by the administrator. As a user, rules can be visibles from the "User> My Rights" page.


### How to use negative balances?

The rights with authorized negative balances are used like the other rights, there will be no blocking when the quantity requested is not available, the indicators showing the quantity available in the application will display a negative quantity which will correspond to the quantity Consumed if the initial balance is zero.

This can be used for declaration of sickness absence, leave without pay, or days of training.


### How do I set up holidays?

Holydays calendars can be added by the administrator from the calendars section. For each user, it will be necessary to set the schedule of the calendar from its visualisation page. For this you can consult the article on the [planning of the parameters](010-planning-of-parameters.html#choice-of-days-holidays)

The holiday setup is available only for users with an "absences" account.

Creating new holiday calendars uses the URL of a [icalendar] file (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ICalendar), if the default calendars do not suit you, It is possible to create new icalendar files that will have to be parameterized and hosted by yourself. The files provided by default using the project [icsdb] (https://github.com/gadael/icsdb) which can be enhanced by external contributions.

### How do you set the working rhythms?

Schedule calendars can be added by the administrator from the agenda section. For each user, it will be necessary to set the schedule of the calendar from its user card. For this you can consult the article on the [planning of the parameters] (010-planning-of-parameters.html # change-of-rhythm-of-work)

The working rhythm configuration is available only for users with an "absences" account.

Creating new work rhythm calendars uses the URL of a [icalendar] file (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ICalendar), if the default calendars do not work for you, It is possible to create new icalendar files that will have to be parameterized and hosted by yourself.

The different working rhythms proposed by default are available as an example in [this folder] (https://github.com/gadael/gadael/tree/master/public/calendars)

### How to implement the reduction of the balance of the RTT according to the sick leave?

TODO

### How to supply the new balance of the right at the beginning of a new period?

Gadael allows the planning in advance of the periods of leave and assumes that all periods start with the same balance. Once the right is created, it is necessary to create renewal periods, the balance will be renewed automatically at each beginning of the period.

### There is already a history of renewals mails the number of days of the right must change for the next period and the following, how to do?

In this case, it is recommended to create a new right to avoid confusion, if the same right name should be kept, it is advisable to rename the old one. This method makes it possible to keep the history as it is and to avoid having balances not consumed in past periods.

### How to declare all employees absent?

It is necessary to use the function "Holidays imposed" of the menu administrator. You can refer to the [corresponding chapter] (002-guide-de-l-administrator.html # Conges-imposes) for more information.


## Installing its own server

### Or download the source code? Contribute to development?

The code and documentation are available on [github] (https://github.com/gadael/). All contributions are welcome.

### What are the hardware requirements?

There is no significant consumption of resources for the use of this software, the server must be sized according to the number of users who can connect simultaneously.

### What are the software prerequisites?

A linux system with [nodejs] (https://nodejs.org/) and [mongodb] (https://www.mongodb.com/), the rest of the dependencies can be installed using [npmjs] (https: / / /www.npmjs.com/) and [bower] (https://bower.io/). Although the application can run on any linux distribution. Developments were made on and for a debian distribution.

### How can I use the exported database from gadael.com?

The exported archive is made from the folder produced by the [mongodump] command (https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/reference/program/mongodump/). You will need to use [mongorestore] (https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/tutorial/backup-and-restore-tools/#restore-a-database-with-mongorestore) to import this data to another server.

### Where can I find a compatible web host?

Dependencies can be installed on a dedicated or virtualized server, for servers without root access, the main hosts offer pre-configured [MEAN] (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/MEAN_%28software_bundle%29) environments Which are quite suitable.
